Dear Senator Isakson

The current healthcare bill being considered by the senate looks like an even bigger mess than the original bill passed in the first Obama administration. I recognize that part of the problem is that Democrats and Republicans can't agree on terms well enough to craft a sensible bill, but in my view, both parties are ignoring the biggest issue: out of control costs. The US currently has the most wildly expensive health care in the world and we are definitely not getting our money's worth in terms of overall health results.  This issue seems ready made to be addressed by a Republican controlled senate; after all, the Republican party used to be the party that focused on fiscal responsibility as I'm sure you remember.  

There are numerous models around the world for the US to draw on to craft effective fiscal reform of our Health Care system and many of those models are far more market based than our present system. I strongly recommend that someone on your staff read a short book by T.R. Reid named The Healing of America: A Global Quest for Better, Cheaper, and Fairer Health Care.  It would also be instructive to look at the system in Singapore which offers universal catastrophic coverage but requires all citizens to maintain an HSA account and be responsible for normal health bills.  

Whatever happens, our health care costs HAVE TO COME DOWN and we need more transparency in pricing. There is no way that a CAT scan, for example, should cost anyone $2000 or more, given that a CAT scan machine can be purchased for around $100,000, or that a 5 minute bedside visit from an MD in an emergency room should cost $250. I think doctors deserve excellent pay, but $2000 per hour is a bit extreme.  

Frankly, the only way to reform our system is through a recognition that the system will never get better without help from our government. I'm all in favor of a system that contains the best elements of a free market system, especially true competition, but that currently does not exist.

I would love to hear your thoughts on this subject (or your staffers) but please don't insult my intelligence by sending the usual clap trap about removing regulations, etc. This system is broken and bleeding, it needs serious help, and I would really be impressed if you devoted part of what is probably your last term to pushing for SERIOUS health care reform.   

Thank you.
